To train a NER system,
you have to follow several steps
for converting text to numbers,
all the way to making
the prediction.
In this video, we will
explore all these
steps. Let's dive in.
I'll show you how to
convert entity classes and
label data into a arrays of
numbers that correspond
to one another,
and how to create
a data generator
to process your data in batches,
saving you time and resources.
Let's begin. First, you
will assign each entity
class a unique number.
For example, a personal
name might be 1,
geographical
location might be 2,
and the time
indicator might be 3.
Next, assign each word
a number that corresponds to
its assigned entity class.
Given a sentence like Sharon
flew to Miami last Friday,
you get a corresponding
tokenized sentence where
4,282 corresponds to
the index of Sharon.
853, corresponds to flew,
187 corresponds with
2, and so forth.
The O corresponds to the O class
which denotes a filler
or unrecognized word.
Note also that the
numbers you see here are
random and are assigned
when you process your data.
From this point, each sequence
is then transformed
into an array of
numbers where each number
corresponds to the index
of the labeled word.
From a labeled sentence
that looks like this,
you'll be transforming it
into a numerical array.
When processing the dataset,
you need to represent each word
in the vocabulary as a number.
As you just saw, this gives
you numerical arrays.
But if the arrays are
different sizes, you'll
need to handle that.
To assist with this, you
can set the length
of your sequences to
a certain number and add
a generic pad token to
fill all the empty spaces.
You'll be implementing
this in the assignment,
but don't worry about it.
It's a relatively simple process
and I'll show you
exactly how to do it.
In order to train this named
entity recognition system,
you'll first create a tensor
for each input and its
corresponding label,
as you saw before.
Then create a data generator
to output them in batches.
The batch size can be
anything you want,
but normally you'd want
a batch size that is
in a power of two.
Something like 64, 128,
256, 512 and so forth.
Doing this will speed up
your processing
time considerably.
If you felt alarmed
by the words,
create a data generator,
don't worry about it.
There will be more
on this to come.
After the batches are generated,
feed them into an LSTM unit.
You'll run the outputs
from this through
a dense or fully
connected layer.
Then predict using a LogSoftmax
over K possible classes,
where K corresponds to the
number of possible outputs.
Using LogSoftmax instead of
softmax is important here.
Because LogSoftmax gives
better numerical performance
and gradient optimization.
Let's take a look at a
visual of this process.
Here are the inputs,
which include
the arrays you created
when processing the data.
You'll feed them through
an LSTM layer with
its series of activations
and element wise operations.
Run the outputs of through
a final dense layer which is
a linear operation on
the input vectors.
Then you compute a LogSoftmax
to get the corresponding output.
Here's what the layers
might look like when you're
implementing them in
this week's assignment.
For your dense layer,
you'll want to pass
in the dimensions
of the tag arrays
you just created.
Now you're ready to
accomplish some mighty tasks
like numerical array
conversion with token padding,
training in batches for
faster processing and running
your model through
its final dense layer
and activation function.
You've come a long way
since the beginning
of this course.
There's a bit more to go.
You finally know how to train
a NER system from scratch.
In the next video, I will
show you how to
evaluate your system.